[Music]
digital networks are becoming denser and
denser we are online all the time
everywhere and there are fewer and fewer
places where we can really be alone
where and when can we still disconnect
to be offline has become a luxury will
we permanently lose data through the
cordless drip tubes of the smartphone or
do we take back control over our
connectivity
backlight went on a journey to the edge
of the internet with the white spots app
developed especially for this occasion
it makes the invisible digital networks
visible the scanner shows the cell phone
towers that communicate 24/7 with our
smartphones and tablets on the new white
spots world map the areas with mobile
phone and Internet coverage are black
the white spots are the areas where
there's no signal yet with the app we go
looking for the exit of the digital web
that encloses us this is back light
welcome to the white spots of our world
[Music]
companies and governments want the whole
wide world to be connected by wireless
internet so they are experimenting with
drones and satellites to achieve total
connectivity but what exactly will it
mean if this master plan becomes a
reality will we never be able to be
alone again if the whole planet is
connected and we can all be reached all
the time everywhere
psychologist sherry Turkle once
described enthusiastically how computers
are becoming part of our personal lives
Wow
but she now has serious objections on
our app she sees the enormous density of
cell phone towers around her it just
makes me sad we're so connected and were
so trivially communicating on the white
spots world map she wants to create more
sacred places without internet and
mobile phone reception I don't think
there'll be places that will not be
covered by the internet everything will
be covered yeah the entire planet yes I
think that the sacred spaces are places
that we create where we choose to not
use connectivity I mean my classroom is
technically black except that nobody has
a phone or a laptop in them so it counts
on your map does a black spot but it's
pure white you know among my colleagues
you know we went from a position where
we said you know it's great to have
phones and classes and laptops and
classes you can be looking stuff up you
can be you know enhancing your
experience by being on the web to
realizing that actually it was taking
our students away from the conversation
of classes away from conversations with
us and with their with the people they
were with it was distracting and it was
shopping they were on Facebook and now
we say actually laptops down phones down
leave them in a basket we we were to
here together to be in a community but
you used to be quite a believer yes I
was but I'm an empiricist and it turns
out that my observations of distraction
were the same as what all the research
was showing which is that when an open
laptop in a classroom creates a circle
of distraction
around that open laptop so it's not just
the person with the open laptop who is
distracted it's everyone around in a
concentric circles of distraction and
that research is so compelling as a
matter of fact 89% of Americans say that
in their last social interaction they
took out a phone and 82% say that it
deteriorated the conversation so in
America we're at a kind of funny point
where we're all the time doing something
that we know is not really good for us
so I think we're at a point a kind of
tipping point where there's the
possibility for change
[Music]
welcome to the International Institute
of digital detoxification when you enter
this area we will take all of your
digital technology valuables and
anything else bet it doesn't quite fit
in the camp Randy knows I think it's
starting to be a movement and I think
you do see it when the most high tech
people want a low-tech education for
their children Steve Jobs didn't want
his kids to have iPads or iPhones no he
wanted them to have long conversations
at dinner and many many Silicon Valley
parents send their children to waldorf
schools Montessori School schools where
there's very little technology because
the mandarins of this new society often
put as their highest value the kind of
conversation that this technology
undermines there's nothing wrong with
phones there's nothing wrong with
connectivity
I love connectivity what let me just get
them I can't turn this off hello I don't
think for me the point is to unplug I
think the point is to know when to take
a break
[Music]
[Applause]
no one went to my sleep I told the
windowsill add the remaining four
Spencer preferences of the shape teacher
laughs I'm one who recently also lose so
the police chief appraiser problem one
who told you similar Paula the cellphone
in fire works like this you put the be
real attorneys on enough return his own
signal is blocked no signal this is a
smart device to to trigger a response
and make people start thinking that's
all right maybe here at the bar we
should talking or not be slaves to our
smartphones here in Brazil many people
use the cell phones 24 hours a day
people is not are not living at the
moment they're living the virtual worlds
and everything does happened on the
internet is more more interesting more
important than their friends that
writing from the calendar people are
losing a capacity for boredom when you
when you're experiencing boredom your
brain is not bored your brain is doing
some of the most important work that it
knows how to do it's laying down it's
called the default mode Network it's
it's the it's part of the basic
autobiographical story of your life
it's doing important work for your
mental stability and your emotional
stability and these days when people are
alone even for a few moments they reach
for a device and there's an
extraordinary study that shows that
after as little as six minutes alone
people would rather give themselves
electroshocks self-administer
electroshocks
rather than just sit quietly alone yet
there is a growing group of people who
want to unplug once in a while it's
especially the elite with the most
expensive smartphones
choose to disconnect in the German Black
Forest a luxury spa caters to this need
offering deep sleep and digital detox
treatments in carefully constructed
rooms where brass plates and graphite
wallpaper block all Wi-Fi and phone
signals when you are with the molecule
by go hiking in the Black Forest you see
that you will have no connection on most
of the parts of the big forest there is
no connection when you are always
connected you are never 100% focused in
villas definitely we have 15 rooms so
from these 15 minutes we have three very
large suites and twelve double rooms we
don't force every client here to
disconnect you have some hotels also
there is no Wi-Fi yeah here the clients
can choose and we have a nice book here
from Nathaniel zebra is the digital diet
it's the four steps how to get rid of
these device and then had to break and
to make some some breaks and when we see
that clients maybe are open for this we
just give them the book and said okay we
have time just read and maybe then they
say it's nothing for me or they say okay
I will try I will try that this time for
lunch yeah we take the tablets away and
we will talk to each other
of course you can choose to go offline
for a few days either in a luxury hotel
or in a cabin in the woods it seems so
simple just leave your phone at home
right but is it also possible to live
offline every day no phone or internet
and still participate in society the
Armenian mountains are the home of
popular writer are impatient he is
sometimes called the new Franz Kafka his
stories and poems are shared on the
Internet
that he has tossed his mobile phone away
and chooses to live an analogue life so
he can concentrate on writing even in
Armenia where parcel is sent by snail
mail often failed to arrive the density
of cell phone towers on our white spots
app is dizzying what's in the desert
could come mr. Potter wash flora I was
at a good worth of expose moment
Charlotte a discussion among kids all
this time image
[Music]
original origins variable mu her head up
to its energy its Sinkin for water
shamanaka facebook home to beat her own
name era force arapaima territory for my
buds a dominant share at almond she
amassed a virgin harsh wolf he musta hit
continue
it sort of here for kids to house on a
yes I mean I come Kazan woman who cares
burn a snowman
we have over Nick O'Hara who see Homer I
mean I've conquered
tusks with tusks with since your
physical can he talk second intrusions
sauce Kali hawk nuts moon shadow coconut
say oh and hundreds angry chapattis
condom a mural velocity will dump it in
Adam hurrah for suet the Salah let's see
who quarterly knife and said it's
enhancer Domini Potter of what of inch
for me poem Lazaro genomic Rania Raj at
saucer logon KO EK room
argument in case mark tech and you
needed more think is insane resume is
good good none more navantia Devon if I
want to find RM I'm calling to Armand
because he's the main contact with
Aravind also if I need him very much
I'm coming here because I know his lunch
time and he is coming every day to the
earth and so we find some kind of
different ways to find Arum it's just a
question of some people need it some
people want this iPhone some people
don't need it and they can be happy
without it happy and successful also
only 90 homeowners ancora me warka
Dornish at Madurai
show me made some high fantasy dreaming
vagina Rajas Nellie a dev Kumar Tunguska
severe are several technical shot hey
Takeda do internet rabbit attack Iran
Saudi economy on Sophia's Antonio p.m.
John so I am Keanu talk North Dakota
Gorton super funny ensemble homina
homina coherency on convergence or sky
carry new era hosted in his pocket
[Music]
whoo Gordon bullit Minocqua tuna boricua
economy at Martin Talbot Slavic wind
blowing regionalism Magna open with
tsunami Cartman will meet her meet
current and refers me encourage its on
phone adhere Kurata from ordinary or
chunk night wood rahamallah drama
decorative german-occupied Poland meat
cleaver stroke immersed zombie
and the host of Africa at the air junk
with Cena away what if there was a way
to light up the entire globe and finally
make all the world's information
accessible to all of the world's people
well maybe finding an answer starts with
looking somewhere new like aah and
trying something different like balloons
yep that's right balloons because it
turns out that if these balloons
it's faster and easier and cheaper to
give everyone the Internet
than it is to give some people the
Internet
while the offline movement is growing
the internet rolls on the island of Sri
Lanka was chosen by tech giant Google to
be the first country with a hundred
percent coverage of free Wi-Fi the
company uses balloons equipped with the
Internet Reuters as part of the
experimental Google loon project Sri
Lanka's minister of information is
bubbling over with enthusiasm but what
exactly is the logic behind covering the
globe with a digital web what's behind
all these initiatives to hook up the
entire world using drones satellites and
balloons we asked Internet critic Evgeny
Morozov the goal is hundred percent
connectivity on the planetary scale is
that gonna happen well I think it's
quite likely as long as you can have
some expected return coming from an area
of the world it's quite logical to
expect that there will be somebody
interested in integrating at the end of
the world market and then for me that's
what it's all about because it makes
life easier for main players for
globalization which happened to be
corporations then of course you need to
integrate those areas into this network
and how do we integrate them into the
network well you basically build
connectivity it will networks you you
know make sure that any asset
has the capacity to generate data at
cemetery civet pyrolysis earth and so
forth and then you just need to have a
massive amount of investment into
creating of that works I think with
Google that is a concentrated effort but
also his Facebook commitments sort of
many of the firm's that now operate into
what has been called surveillance
capitalism at its this idea that somehow
by aggregating data by analyzing it you
can maybe offer some services which
phenomenally free to the users but
nonetheless you can monetize them
because you're generating beta that
advertisers are interested in you think
it's wise for Sri Lanka to accept Google
loon total connectivity for their
country well I think in the case of many
developing countries and I think Sri
Lanka here would be one of many they're
making a trade off which fits with what
the government itself believes and I
think what the government is held
beliefs is that markets are good
American companies are good creating
more dependencies it's probably okay as
long as we can get some cash back and in
terms of electability it's also a very
great peach to their population because
ultimately population gets something
good connectivity who is the government
paying absolutely nothing for its
provision I mean ultimately I think we
have to understand that this is the new
developmental model that the idea is
that this companies will come and built
a lot of services for you connectivity
being one of them but health education
transportation and others are waiting
also to be offered with those companies
quickly
taking over parts of the infrastructure
that previously was offered differently
and ultimately if you really want to go
beyond the current model you have to be
asking very political economic questions
about things like data is data an asset
can it be privately owned is it okay for
a company like Google to collect my data
well I'm using the service then claim it
as their own
and then basically derive all sorts of
benefits including financial benefits
from that data you know when I used to
use the post office I would have never
thought that the post office would ever
claim ownership over the contents of my
ladders as an ISA the placard
verifications so to see no I had to move
my atom we openness and resume be hidden
a narrative lose any OPA solid destiny
and no socks I know the moral carotids
thought white sports market political
philosopher paul frisson true is
critical of the ambition to supply the
entire world with cell phone towers and
airborne reuters that permanently
communicate with our smartphones he's
afraid that because of the data trails
we leave behind nothing can ever be
hidden anymore is it
Halle library and the VA economy in the
sunlight in the international Hardware
open dome I haven't verified on total to
Tala decking Tacoma in terms of an
infrastructure on Oak Alice what we're
doing a physic is in Moraga a Tavares in
for valo system intervals in an Optima
near food owned by two Kuna out why
emojis and that one took out for court
but the argument evolved long list of
fine of e train into a data center every
table which is inserted into the center
comes KK who to whom to the internet
free and smartphone and I thought it's a
topic for men's only mortgage it's a
habit and instead of the key aside does
it the case that arm
Padme
in live hooked on those the privacy was
hearing and the mascara move on
addressed on mucosal additive order
names Navin old off neoformans aromatic
mixture for bear cubs and said okay I'm
problem Nicole to Linda's anchorman
scenic Savannah deepest I need feel
simple and plot sector if the pin code a
man ought to look fair on the amount and
this sort of the Bayaka by a Dulaney
dollars on Eden area of patella
now this men's a cap next to the Buried
resect the cannot accelerate the pure
physical eraser hands for the alien
force it to you and Aldi are the middle
and abroad and EPS did the heart of zom
Allah decree I need outset the dollar
said program dot marks it's deafening of
an amplifier on the event after stood
Monica Okanagan if you do my own handed
it like so it's what Alphonse Hank on
survivor next make goodness no are the
district court who blame the palliative
struck saga of the year of the app now
yeah the community need I'd set my knees
armata nadenka off here of his biggest
rest concave on this part designed of
war machine coke
technique more click mark on one thing
about the sign but it need the
selectable Sigma hat is exhale
fundamental and machine that the
technologies Elif okay more okay repeat
on that organism such a develop ends my
electron is need control the casino mark
Normand and sought Corazon Faraday Omiya
hain Widow demands even a physics ends
in my Elka divides the alcohol name open
blocker start
[Music]
based in the Netherlands Holland
shielding is one of the world's market
leaders in products that protect against
electromagnetic radiation demand for
these products has increased steeply
over the past few years the Internet of
Things the taking of the box blade and
not fill irrelevant chain from Omaha
pirata - goodness forbidden I would take
it off in our north over the frequency
tool to ham and double take another
stage made her mother y'all know the
facial not a little older
this is an antenna and I could mean hell
throat spectrum may mate it I do we
eating I'm a ho she made a time T and I
couldn't just for seller who feels
strongly not an upper arts out raved of
all 32 for ish and the corner top around
so ampersand not evil Allen autumn
Carver Doone remark and you feel in 2004
silver projected way through unlocks
increases and present of data very yard
there's a discrete home teach with the
increasing wireless communication
between all these devices the chance of
being tracked traced and spied upon has
risen accordingly so there's a new
market for radiation free protection
cages secret services and law firms are
among the buyers
[Music]
holy crap it's beautiful and horrifying
beer get a youngster tear poet hacker
and member of the Iceland Parliament
knows digital networks from the inside
out she also knows how it feels to be
observed and spied on constantly
they know that I'm under heavy
surveillance because of my involvement
with WikiLeaks and Snowden and there's
nothing I can really do to stop it
because it's so much and what bothers me
about that is that everybody who calls
me is under surveillance everybody who
writes to me is under surveillance do
you remember the first time you went
online yeah I actually do it was in 1995
and I just fell in love with it so I
felt it was a completely new possibility
for creating new cultures and new ways
of doing things both socially and
creatively so unfortunately it became
industrialized and the Internet today
compared to how the internet was back
then is entirely different planet it's
become just like a really sad version
with some of the worst things on on
planet Earth it's become a tool to spy
on us a tool to manipulate us and to
make us into these completely perfect
consumers so we become a commodity our
most precious secret elements of our
being are being sold as commodity to put
more stuff towards us our computers and
phones have these cameras and these
cameras can be turned on remotely and
it's happened lots of times so there's a
reason why a lot of activists and people
that are aware of this I have started a
while ago to use stickers that are
typically designed to put over the
camera and you can take it off if you
want to go and on skype they can also
hear what you are because there's a
microphone in the computer and the same
applies to even Barbie dolls and and
your television and it's gonna get into
everything all your devices voice
recognition requires massive processing
so it's sent off into a cloud and a
cloud is just a computer somewhere it's
not like it's up in the digital sky
this thing's very powerful computers and
so these companies that create these
devices they have direct access into
your device so somebody can be on the
other line seeing you and hearing you a
Hello dream house has the ability to be
Wi-Fi connected it also responds to
speech commands
hello dream house bring the elevator
down
[Music]
even in some cars your voice command and
this is all happening very quickly and I
have not seen any laws or regulations
about this nowhere and so we're worried
that hackers can get into our computers
and take control over them what if they
can get control over your car the
computer in your car or the computer
that monitors your heart if you think
about all the stuff that you are in no
control of putting into this massive
database that's about you that's
dangerous
you know now I work as a legislator and
I have specialized in the field of
legislation that deals with these
realities and the fact of the matter is
that no legislator in the world has been
able to keep up with the rapid
development technology is creeping
further and further into our lives as
Yong's Tatia
but if the government can't keep up with
this digital acceleration how can we get
a grip on it
the tightly knit community of the Amish
in the United States has lived through
centuries of debating and adjusting new
technologies these fundamentalist
Christians only occasionally allow
novelties such as cars telephones or
computers into their daily lives after
careful consideration and on their own
terms with us Amish we are dependent on
public transportation for any distance
and and and local travel we do in our
slow way and I think the horse and buggy
slows us down and really helps the
overall value that we're trying to
create the serve and not get carried
away
Reverend Norman Yoder
is willing to talk to us but only
off-camera he does not want to be filmed
just for sure not my face I'd rather not
have anything of me as far as that
concerned the surroundings I don't care
but as far as me I don't want to be
filmed it's in the ten commandments of
not worshiping any images when
technology comes along we evaluated and
one thing we it's it's really been
frustrating to us let's say the facts
putting this print of paper through
there and going through that line you
know that it was like well we don't want
to go there but finally we adapt it to
that so by the time most of the
community adapted to that that
technology was already gone they wanted
email so that's what we're dealing with
the technology is progressing so fast
it's hard to deal with
as a group we see more and more we have
to teach what the moral impact is in
being evolved in this so each individual
can make better choices for themselves
we were asked to put a cell phone tower
on our land they wanted to rent but we
never did it the towers came was not for
us not for our people it was for the
other people so it was here and asked
more and more people adapted to it now
the demand was that you communicate that
way was getting higher and higher we
deal with a lot non-amish
they demand instant communication they
need to know now and we get wrapped up
in there
you know now dealing with Internet email
that is a serious issue
a regular computer with your safety
walls you know where you can't get on
porn sites and things like that now when
our lock downs that we have that is
totally locked down and you go on the
internet with this computer no no
absolutely not it will not play movie
picture or music or anything like that
it's not a computer that was torn down
it was built from the ground up like
this
yes would you mind showing me your
mobile phone okay yes we keep it
actually right over here and draw and
it's just a regular flip phone and and
the only thing you can do with that is
call you cannot text do anything like
that it's just a portable phone so this
is where it stays but as far as going
home no I don't have it I keep it right
here that's for the business we use
technology as long as we use it and it
doesn't get to the point where it uses
us and controls us that's the bottom
line of it the Amish want to keep
control of their lives and have
distilled some strict directives for new
technology but there is some room for
personal interpretation down the road is
the home of seamstress Marilyn Lehman
after consulting her husband she agrees
to talk to us on camera for her sewing
business
she really needs a phone do you have a
phone not in the house we don't have a
phone but we have a phone outside we
call it our phone Shan Shan tea and yeah
we just have a voicemail so that's how
people contact us if we if if they need
something they know they can leave a
message and usually once an hour so I
write now to check messages and then I
reply them so
otherwise yeah we don't have the phone
in the house that way I could just
continue with my work and I know the
voicemail is there somebody does need
something they can always leave a
message it's right outside it's beside
the barn I only have like 50 feet or so
to go so yeah I just really like it out
there have you been online no no I
didn't know how to get online so no I've
never been online are you curious about
the internet um
I cannot even really say that I am I
mean it's never crossed my mind because
I guess we've had successful business
now for 14 years without any computer
access or internet access or yeah just
me and my faithful old phone Shack
[Music]
this is about us all of us right now a
couple billion of us have access to the
Internet and amazing things have come
from it so what happens when the rest of
us get access it doesn't get twice as
good it gets like a bazillion times as
good imagine it for the first time in
history humanity firing on all cylinders
everyone everywhere it starts up here at
60,000 feet with planes powered by the
Sun opening up the Internet to people
everywhere
[Music]
Google and Facebook are the new colonial
powers to some extent yes there are new
colonial powers because they operate
very closely
it was the foreign agendas of the US
government it's clearly has a certain
Imperial dimension to it you're
basically seeing huge extraction of
Valley and huge extraction of assets
intangible ones like data which I think
will be key to the functioning of those
economies and to their ability to
actually articulate the sovereign
alternative to a world where otherwise
they will end up completely integrated
into a system where they cannot write
the rules they cannot sue the companies
and they just have to follow the dictate
of corporations essentially
[Applause]
hi mark my circle kitchen and I am a
chartered accountant by profession so my
questions is very simple and why are you
showing so much interest in India answer
honestly
so our mission is to give everyone in
the world the power to share what's
important to them and to connect every
person in the world and India is the
world's largest democracy it's you know
one of the the biggest countries where
if you really have a mission of
connecting every person in the world you
can't do that without helping to connect
everyone in India Facebook they consider
themselves to be the biggest community
in the world the biggest democracy
because there are more people on
Facebook than in China or India I said
what Facebook did recently was they
offered something that was always called
free basics in India free basic means
that they want to give free Internet to
the poorest people in India at a cost
and the cost is that you have only
access to what Facebook wants you to
have access to it's the complete
opposite to net neutrality and there was
a massive sort of protest against this
and so what Facebook did to try to push
it even further was that they sent a
message to all the Facebook users in
India to urge them to sign a petition
for free basics they were testing how
far they could get away with it and they
didn't start with a small country but
the largest populated country in the
world and you know if there had not been
some resistance towards this and
awareness-building
then they would have gotten away with it
welcome to Facebook there's still a
billion people in India we need to
connect to the internet and connecting
them represents one of the greatest
opportunities available to humanity
today so I'm deeply appreciative of
Prime Minister Modi's commitment to
digital India to make this enormous
opportunity a reality for all Indians
you have to understand what drive those
companies those companies are not really
interested in immediate payoffs they
ain't there they're only interested in
convincing their investors they will
keep on growing indefinitely so as the
user growth slows down in North America
and Western Europe they have to convince
the investors and financial markets that
they have the capacity to capture the
markets in India China Russia or Latin
America and so forth and easiest way to
convince the investors is by basically
striking this deal with telecom
operators in the case of Facebook and si
moles in the case of Google to bring in
more and more people on board in the
hopes of convincing the investors a
pardon
what if I'm living with my tribe in the
for since we know and I don't want that
connectivity I think if you're living in
with your tribe and Sri Lanka chances
are you wouldn't even notice that it's
there unless there is an effort to
extract value from you and by means of
collecting data about you once you make
connectivity a permanent feature of
everyday life across the globe
ultimately people who find themselves
and meets that connectivity will help to
pay for the connectivity itself
we are definitely in the black zone
in the last 20 years the advancement of
technology has probably put our
guidelines more in a chaos than in ever
in history and it's a serious thing
where is this leading the technologies
that the computer and the Internet is
that basic technology is creating the
availability to have a one world order
and everything being done by paperless
and all that so the question to us is
when is that time going to be that we
see we're just not going to adapt and I
I think what we're trying to do is a
good example that could really be
adapted in the whole world if we revoke
- I don't see a future where we
massively disconnect I see a future
where we learn to connect with greater
wisdom that's my hope
thank you for watching for more on this
subject take a look at the playlist you
can also watch this recommended video
don't forget to subscribe to our Channel
and we'll keep you updated on our
documentaries
[Music]